But I think that by this point, anyone who's—it's going to be consulted only because someone has a reference to it, as opposed to running across it in the staff.
And it's also going to be difficult for somebody to find it browsing through the computer, too.
Is that right?
Is there a descriptive enough title that it might engage the curiosity of a... No, the title is not descriptive enough.
And because... That's one of your criteria, by the way, on the criteria that you sent me.
Well, that often if it has a general title... That you might keep it here.
If it has a really descriptive title that might...
attracts somebody's attention, then that might argue to send it out.
Exactly.
No, I know.
But my bet in this case is that it's going to be used because someone has a reference to the book, and they'll be able to get at it.
On my word, look, I'm in the book, actually.
So what's going to happen then, do you think?
What's in this book?
There should actually be more volumes.
So what's your sense of this particular book right now?
I'm going to send it out.
Oh, you are?
Okay, so you weigh all these things.
So what's finally weighed in that direction?
It's my sense that it's not going to be this.
It's going to be used because someone has a reference to a particular essay in it.
And they'll find it.
And I'm going to send it out even though I have an article on it.
Really?
Yeah.
Did you just find that out or did you know that?
Well, I've totally forgotten, actually.
I don't see it.
There should be more volume, so I wonder what's wrong.
I'll have to look at them.
So it's more than a five-volume work?
Multi-volume work.
I'll call it a multi-volume work.
There you go, Katie Carpenter.
So let's say that, all right, you sign off on these.
How soon will they be going off to Southboro?
What's the... Maybe this afternoon or tomorrow.
Really?
Oh, so it's pretty quick.
Yes, pretty quick.
And they get processed in a very short period of time out in Southboro and are once again available.
So we could go out and actually look at some... Okay, I like that.
And we might even get some more interest in... I thought that it might be interesting...
And look at some different parts of the library, so that, you know, because there are different kinds of issues with different areas.
Plenty of tape, plenty of film, and plenty of batteries.
Did I bring my notebook?
I can't go without my notebook, I'm sorry.
Hold, wait.
I'm sorry, Ken.
That's bad luck.
I've never gone without a notebook.
I've got 42 of these notebooks filled with this book.
I'm sorry.
Right there.
I'm not very superstitious about many things, but a reporter without a notebook... A reporter without a notebook... It's a very serious situation.
I'm sorry.
The last time we were here, there was that aroma of books, and you said, that's the smell.
It's a nice aroma, but it's the smell of books, of writing books.
I'm not pleased to say I don't smell it today.
What kind of a preservation program does Harvard have in terms of deacidification and deacidification?
There's a new lab downstairs that's just open.
We could go down and take a look at that if you wanted.
But, you know, there are articles of all of them.
to do preservation work.
Okay.
But I mean, it's an ongoing process.
It's an ongoing process.
And do you have any rough idea of how many volumes you're doing in a year?
I don't know.
Who would be privy to that kind of interview?
Well, the preservation work.
Okay.
I don't necessarily want to do a full interview, but I'm sure who would love to get some figures from them.
We're looking at some nice empty shells here.
Well, it's because some stuff has been sent out, but that wasn't what I... Now, where are we now?
Well, we're in the section of Baltic.
Literature in Baltic.
What floor are we on?
On one west.
And I don't, you know...
I don't know the author's language, but it's one of those sections where I can experience the story.
I follow the policy of keeping a comfortable environment by every author on the show.
Is this fiction we're looking at, or?
Yeah, well, yeah.
It's, it's, it's, well, less certainly.
It's, uh, it's fiction, drama, poetry, all together.
And here's a, a, uh, a two-volume, uh, work of that, that particular author.
And, uh, so I'm going to, uh,
Keep it.
Here's a... Here's an author where I find four
three books by the person I'm going to send out.
Do you kind of impose a number on yourself?
Is there kind of a general program of how many books you try to get out there over a certain period of time?
I don't have such a number.
I have to keep busy.
And no number has been opposed upon you either.
I have to keep busy the people who are processing the books as well.
But there is going to be increasing pressure to send out a lot of books because there's going to be a renovation of the stacks here.
So it's going to have to be.
And that's scheduled?
Yeah, work is, you know, will possibly begin now.
I think 1999.
So next year, and so at that time you hope to have—how many books out of here, would you say?
Well, I figured that without doing any particular harm to the collections, I can send out to perhaps another
Wow.
Between now and next year.
Well, I can't do it by next year unless more people are hired actually to process the books, unless I get some help.
I just can't do that, you know?
So I need some help.
I keep looking at my watch in the space of about five minutes.
You've got three
four, five, six.
There are about ten books.
I see another three there.
So you're moving along with a pretty good clip, aren't you?
Yes, I do.
And by my very rough estimate, you're getting a book at least every 30 seconds.
Yeah.
I'm doing calculations.
And here's a, you know, this is,
So there they go.
There they go.
But you took care to keep
at least one book from the individual authors who you chose to remain.
Even though it's someone who's not likely to be.
Without regard to the specific work, right?
Because you have no way of knowing what the magnum opus of this particular author is.
I have not.
Although one of these books that I left behind happened to have been charged out twice.
So that was relevant.
When you get into this, do you enjoy it?
I mean, is it something that engages you?
Yeah, you really can get into it.
It's actually fascinating.
Actually, you're running up against books that 99% of the time you've never heard of before.
Am I right?
Yes, I am.
Nineteen-nine percent overstating it.
Ninety-nine what?
Overstating it.
Really?
But then in here, you know, we're in, for instance, into, you know, Soviet stuff on economics.
So we've moved from one west to one what?
Well, to one south.
And now we're in Soviet literature?
No, Soviet economics.
Okay.
And when you see a cover like that, someone looking up at airplanes in the cover of this book, you know that it's not really a scholarly work, is it?
A paratextual element.
Exactly, exactly.
And most of this, of the Soviet literature in pamphlet form on economics is not scholarly stuff.
I don't need to look at all of this stuff.
I can, you know.
So your time, your average is all of a sudden really put a bump into it.
It really speeds up.
But if I were to go over that entire shelf, it perhaps would indeed be something that I would keep here.
Here, for instance, you know.
But sometimes, you know, it doesn't all go because obviously people are interested in it.
When we say something is thin, which I can, of course, in terms of content, but here, very physically, you can tell that it's probably thin.
Actually, it often is indeed the case, you know?
I mean, it's going to be pretty lightweight stuff, probably.
That's right.
And hear the sound?
You can tell no one's been told.
Well, that would qualify it at some institutions for deaccessioning, wouldn't it?
Yeah, I know.
But that's not what we do here.
Well, that little one-minute stop gave you about fifteen books.
The challenge for me is to make a wonderful, engaging story about walking through the stacks.
This is book culture.
This is very important.
Here's a very different kind of section because it's German literature.
And one of the reasons that I knew
that storage would work and that I was willing to volunteer to take it on is because, look, here we have, here's a German novel.
I don't know what the word means.
But here we have three different editions of that particular book.
And, you know,
We don't need to have all of those.
And the question, of course, is which one I'm going to send out to storage.
And it's interesting that people will often prefer this kind of book that's in a rebinding as opposed to the book in the original covers.
So I'm going to send out, you know, one in the original and the original.
And we moved from one west to one south to one where now?
This is where I'm one east.
Is this kind of how you do it normally?
You pick a floor and you'll work the four sides?
No, no.
Ordinarily, I stay in my area.
Do you balance it by subject areas?
If you're trying cards like, for instance, if we're doing Soviet and Baltic,
Well, I've tried to go through and take some stuff from all of the sections on the grounds that I want people to have a sense that it's being done in an even-handed fashion, that everyone has to give some.
but no one is going to be decimated.
So I've worked some in all areas.
So mindfully, you do try and balance it.
Yes, but at this point, I think, you know, it's generally septic that this is going out there.
But I'm really concentrating a lot on both those who are in various levels of choosing, which is economics, and church history, and social security, and I'm going to get into philosophy, because we have to replace with compact shelving over there.
With what?
Replace it?
Well, we're trying to put in new compact shelving.
Oh, you're right.
I thought this was going to get rid of it.
It's just too old.
It's not working well.
So it has to be in place.
So compact shelving will remain conceptually as well as— Oh, I'm afraid it will.
And so— This really would have been a paradigm regained if you were going back to— Yes, I know.
But here in this German author here I run across a Czech translation of this person.
Is that an inscription by the author, do you think?
It's not by the author, but it is an inscription to Professor Wiener, or Wiener, who taught here at Harvard.
Actually, it's from the translator, an inscription from the translator.
I'm going to send this out to HD because it's a Czech translation.
There simply aren't.
So there's not that much artifactual value from the
The transcription adds nothing, or is it just a ... Well, I think it's kind of nice, but Houghton won't want it because of that.
It's not enough.
So I'm going to turn it out.
But it was borrowed.
Books do get borrowed.
Here's a Czech translation of a German
Well, it was borrowed 38 years ago.
It was borrowed 38 years ago.
It came into the library in 35, so it waited 25 years to be borrowed.
It was borrowed.
And you probably didn't.
I probably missed it.
But just briefly tell me what it is.
Well, it's a Czech translation of some verse of a German author by the name of Hammerling.
H-A-M-E-R-L-I-N-G.
Okay.
So that does kind of fit into the category of translations, foreign translations.
Exactly.
This is one of the categories.
Yeah, exactly.
And Robert Hammerling is the poet?
Is the poet, yeah.
H-A-M-E-R-L-I-N-G.
And here we have two German editions of the work.
The same work?
Of the same work.
So it must be an important work.
No.
No?
Not necessarily.
But why do you have three copies of the same book?
Well, it's not the same.
It's not the same.
It's different editions.
But the poet was significant enough, certainly, to go into foreign translation.
Exactly.
I don't happen to know the person.
No, if I were just basing it on the strength of what I... But I'm keeping one of those.
Like what?
Yeah, on the stacks.
Then, you know, here's another kind of situation.
Here's Gerhard Hauptmann, definitely, is a major author.
And we have of this... But look, this is all Hauptmann.
That's right.
Exactly.
And of this play, we have to be four— I mean, I see, one, two, three, four, at least four, five shelves, at least five shelves, half a dozen shelves of this stuff.
And this kind of is what you were saying earlier.
Do we have to have, obviously he's a major writer, but do we have to have all of the works of the major writer?
He's represented here, and if we need more, we'll send out and bring it back in.
Exactly.
We don't have to have all of Hauptmann five, seven editions of the play, of this particular play.
And that play is...
It's D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D. D.
Because people read them well and type easily.
So this function here as well as ... And even students who in general don't necessarily read easily the prompt or script.
And I will come back and I will make selections among
So you've made a mental note here.
Oh, I'll do systematically in this area.
I just haven't been here, and I'm just trying to point out different sorts of problems in different areas, you know.
So this truck is filling up...
Pretty good, isn't it?
Yes.
You must think I'm nuts, huh?
So now we're going in the elevator.
And we're going to go to the 5 East.
5 East.
Which is where American lives in.
I have allergies.
I'm allergic to everything, but it could very well be the cat we have at home.
How are you going?
Al, what's up, please?
I'm sorry.
Well, I've been in here with a book truck and one person before, and a remote truck, and two people, and three people.
Come up.
Thank you.
It's going to get terminals, aren't you, now?
Don't get terminals in the stacks.
That's new, fairly new, isn't it?
Mm, so it is.
I was researching the general badness, who didn't have them out here.
But I'm going to buy a Widener ticket for whatever, maybe a month or something.
I'm going to need everything.
I'm going to get everything lined up and then just come in and blitz it.
Look at all the empty shelves now.
Is this your work over here, all these empty shelves?
Well, it is, actually.
And a lot of that...
Here, for instance, this happens to be an area where there are lots of current periodicals of a general nature.
And here there are— These are kind of like directories, aren't they?
Well, these are more like the equivalent of Time magazines.
Oh, really?
Periodicals, then?
Of the world, yeah.
And this is one from Chile.
And see, everything before 1989, I had sent out to HD, and at some point I'll come back.
You don't kind of go back to your number of half a million.
That's the goal.
That means you've got to move 50,000 books a week.
Can you do that?
Oh, no.
I can't do that.
We'll just have to... Well, you'd have enough perks to do that, I don't think.
There's not enough people to send it out.
Yeah, that's a thousand books a day in a basement.
It's not just a selection process, you know.
It's a logistical problem.
And so... Well, that's a... That's a dream.
A dream, yeah.
How many books are out at HD now, all told?
It'd have to be several million, wouldn't you think?
Oh, yes.
And you have four modules operating?
You have four up, right?
It's not five.
This is five.
I'll have to give Warren a call again.
I think I'd better go out there again.
But also, you see, in America, here we are, yeah.
We have, here are two, you know,
The Spartan by Caroline Dale, S-N-E-D-E-K-E-R.
Yeah.
And you have several copies of The Spartan by Caroline.
That's right.
And she seems to have been some kind of a, this must be a married name, do you think?
Yeah.
Or one of these is a married name.
I don't know which one.
Yeah.
And so, you know, even in an area of life.
I've never heard of her.
No.
Have you heard of her?
Carolyn Dale Owen, and then she went to Carolyn Dale Snedeker.
Yeah.
She must have been a novelist.
What are the kind of dates?
Early in this century, 20s, 30s, you think?
They look like 20s books.
Exactly.
Spartan is 22.
So this is probably popular fiction of the 1920s.
Exactly.
But nobody's...
even remotely interested in it anymore.
Well, no, as a matter of fact, you know, 1992 it was borrowed.
And it's been borrowed several times.
And the Spartan has been, you know, re-backed, so it clearly had gotten some use, too.
So some of the stuff does, you know, does get some use, and you can't just, you know.
But again, you'd certainly keep at least one example of Carol and Dale Snedeker.
Would you keep a Carol and Dale Owen, too, I wonder?
Well, it's the same author, so I wouldn't feel necessarily compelled to keep them all.
But the books have had some use, so I don't know that I would, you know, tend them.
So you're not going to be that hasty on these.
I'm not going to be that hasty.
It really is possible, even in something like American literature,
stuff that can easily go out without diminishing the utility of the collections.
And I guess that was the point that I was interested in making in coming up here.
That's all over.
There haven't been that many easy choices just yet, have there?
This is Austin Sinclair, I guess, right?
I don't know.
I don't recognize any title.
Bertrand Sinclair.
I don't think that we need all of Bertrand.
The inverted pyramid.
Sinclair.
And so I'm going to send out.
What was that one called?
this title here, the Heroine Bonanza.
And it's not Bertrand.
It's somebody else.
No, but it is.
It's Bertrand Sinclair.
It's another name?
Yeah.
B. M. Bauer.
Do you use pseudonyms?
Apparently.
How do you know it's Sinclair?
Well, I don't know that.
But I figured that because they all have the, you know, they all start with the same, you know, prefix there, three, four, one, six, dot, three.
So they're clearly all booked
That's right.
So it actually was pretty easy to make some decisions here.
Two copies of the inverted pyramid.
Oh, we don't need two copies of the inverted pyramid.
Thank you.
I just set a book off to oblivion.
Oh, that's funny.
I love that.
So you see, we're, you know, we started out at about half an hour ago.
Half an hour ago.
And if we wanted to, you know, we could easily... We could be doubling.
Well, you're explaining to me what you're doing.
It's a demonstration.
So we just passed some big flat, flat things.
Are these candidates?
Because I don't think Ron Lane has any plastic things that he can fit those into.
No, they aren't.
No, because they're so hard to ship out and bring back and so on.
So regardless of what they contain, they're probably going to stay here.
They're going to stay.
As you go through these books and you see some things that are really approaching, you know, in extremis in terms of condition,
Do you flag any of them for preservation?
Yeah, I do sometimes, especially if I see a book that is really, you know, in terrible shape and that I think needs to be photocopied and put back on the shelves because of being, you know, important.
So now we're, where are we now?
Five West, right?
Well, now we're in Five West.
It's pretty good here, Five West.
And this is Greek literature, ancient.
It is.
And, uh, and it's, uh, it's a real hard, hard one in some senses to collect and choose from for stories.
Because a lot of the stuff was already collected at some point out and went over to the, uh, the England deposit library years ago.
What I'm doing now is simply pulling out some books that were published before 1820, 1821, and we're going to send— Now, what's that little pink slip mean?
Well, there are two different pink slips and green slips.
The pink slips mean that they can barcode it for retrieval in the Hoven Library.
Oh, and they can put the barcode—
So what made you designate this Houghton?
To send this to Houghton again?
Well, because of the date.
We just have a rule.
1820.
Before 1821.
So this is what?
Well, this is 1763.
1763 is here.
I'm amazed by that.
Does that surprise you, too?
No.
This is 1739.
1739, and the other one was 17...
So they're getting pink slips.
But his one is getting a green slip because it's still in an original binding.
So that book will be wrapped.
The green slip will get it wrapped.
No, that's right.
The green slip gets wrapped.
And it also goes to Houghton?
Oh, yeah.
Are they obligated to accept them, by the way?
Now, it doesn't actually go into the Houghton space.
It goes out to the depository.
But if someone wants to read it... That's important, because Ron, I asked him, I said, do you have books here from the Houghton Library?
He said, yes, we do.
And I said, you know, then I also wrote, well, the likelihood of an extremely rare item being out there is unlikely, but nevertheless, there are some books.
Now, look at that, see?
Now, would you flag that for being to be rebound, or what?
No.
It might be bound but repaired.
Now, the next person who uses that is going to probably cause some damage to it.
Actually, I'm going to send this out to the depository, though, and this will get wrapped up, maybe even put in a box before it goes out.
That'll be done here.
Because all they're going to do out there is give it its own barcode and stick it in the top shelf because there's a small book.
That's right.
Now, there are others here, like this, so that, you know, you find... 1818, this is the green.
1818.
Yeah, that's a green seal.
And the significance of 1821, once again?
Yeah, the idea was that it's
It's before the age of, you know, modern scholarship and before the... The assets started getting into the paper, too, you know?
Yeah, and it's still, you know, it's still the older, you know, technology for printing, for modern printing technology.
So there's some artifactual value to it.
Well, of course, the more...
Modern books also have their artifactual value, don't they?
But it's mainly the idea that scholarship is better, stronger, substantial.
The modern scholarship, it is before the era.
They've clearly passed these Xenophon writings.
You didn't even look at them.
It's just because there are so many here I didn't want to take up your time with putting slips in all of these.
But clearly this area is going to require more of your time.
It is.
I've got to come back.
And, you know, I hate to see that label going, but we can't do anything about it.
We're looking at a label on a leather, an old, very old book.
Well, it's a Xenophon, right?
Yeah.
It's a 1798 Xenophon, and it really is, you know, we just can't do anything about it.
I'll stick the label inside, and who knows, but it might still be there.
It might be a survivor.
One never knows.
We can't.
We just can't.
Can't do it.
And, of course, the Latin literature is the same kind of issue.
These books are, you know, are heavily, heavily used.
The, uh... The Ophrastus.
You know, here, you know, 1982, 84, 92, you know... This is taking down some random... 90, 91, 92, 93.
So that, you know...
You can't just, you know, there's this—you can't just say, you know, who reads that stuff?
Oh, you've got a huge classics department here.
Exactly, exactly.
And the drama department, you know, and the history department, so we're not just talking— Well, these are modern periodicals, but that's another matter.
That's right.
Greek periodical is here.
And look at all the Greek literature, ancient.
It's a pretty substantial section, isn't it?
It is.
And then the Latin is also substantial.
Do you want one of these?
I carry them.
No, we are.
Latin, Latin literature.
So a similar drill is going to take place here, right?
Yeah.
And I could easily, you know, come up and fill up a tug.
Lots of original, of course.
But one of the things about, whereas, you know,
We were looking at the Erhard Hauptmann and different editions, and I was feeling we only needed one.
Part of the scholarship in classics is that people compare different editions edited by different people, so you can't simply come up and say, well, all we need is one edition of Virgil.
You could really say the same thing about Shakespeare, too, of course, with all the different editions of Shakespeare along the way.
Yeah.
So you really have to... You see, you're making decisions in 20 seconds that's based on, I don't know how many years you've been at this, 40, 30 years or whatever of experience.
I mean, you're telling me things...
that you know instantly that it could go into this equation in a matter of microseconds.
And I talk to a lot of faculty.
This is another kind of interesting...
case.
And you can tell just by looking at this, this is a popular edition of Virgil's Georgics and by Harriet Waters.
Yeah, translated by a woman published in Boston in 1881.
And one could argue, you know,
Do we need any of those in the stacks?
On the other hand, Roger Stoddard has strongly urged me to keep in the stacks some books, enough books so that someone can get a feel for the 19th century book.
So I'm going to put back one of those.
But that's three copies of the same book, right?
Yeah, but I'm not going to reject any of these.
I mean, I'm going to store them all rather than reject them from the collection, even though they're the same book, because this is the predecessor.
What do you mean, reject?
I don't understand.
Well, every now and then, you know, if we have, you know, enough copies of a book.
So we're grooming a little bit then, aren't we?
Well, some.
There's some grooming, indeed.
For instance, there was about ten copies of a fresh shirt for a Harvard professor down there.
I ran across ones.
You know, we really don't need to store ten copies of that book because we pay in perpetuity.
But I will always keep every copy of the book.
James R. Osgood was the president of the firm because we have the ledgers for the firm.
That's 1881.
So you never know.
Now, I confess I've done a little bit of weeding and stuff, but only when there are multiple companies.
Compelling reasons to do so.
Only when there are multiple copies and there's no danger that the book is going to be lost from the university.
That's right.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Another one.
You don't forget anything.
Every book.
Excellent.
So, you know, we could always do more of it.
I think we've got it.
I've got it.
I want to spend a little time with that German book out of my copying room.
Would that tell them then?
If you don't mind, yeah.
Go out and get myself some dimes or quarters or whatever I need.
That's great.
I didn't want to buy that book.
I thought that it might be.
That's the kind of book that costs you 80 bucks or something like that.
No, it's not worth it.
It's not worth it.